AAP-52550 FAQ content added to planning your upgrade (#4201)
ansible/aap-docs: downstream/assemblies/platform/assembly-upgrade-faqs.adoc

[id="upgrade-faqs"]

= FAQs related to upgrading

What are the supported installation topologies and operating systems for {PlatformNameShort} 2.6?::
Red Hat has adopted a more definitive approach to installation topologies, categorizing them as "growth" or  "enterprise" for production-ready setups:

* Growth topology: is intended for organizations that are getting started with {PlatformNameShort} and do not require redundancy or higher compute for large volumes of automation.
* Enterprise topology: is intended for organizations that require {PlatformNameShort} to be deployed with redundancy or higher compute for large volumes of automation. 

For more information, see link:{BaseURL}/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/{PlatformVers}/html/tested_deployment_models/index[Tested deployment models].

Which {RHEL} versions are supported for RPM and containerized installations?::
RPM installations will continue to be supported exclusively on {RHEL} 9. 

> Containerized installations support both {RHEL} 9.4 or later versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 and {RHEL} 10 or later versions of {RHEL} 10 for enterprise topologies.

Reviewer: missing attribute for one instance of RHEL
```suggestion
Containerized installations support both {RHEL} 9.4 or later versions of {RHEL} 9 and {RHEL} 10 or later versions of {RHEL} 10 for enterprise topologies.
```

What is the difference between "upgrade" and "migration" in {PlatformNameShort} 2.6?::
An upgrade is an application action, such as updating {PlatformNameShort} 2.5 to 2.6. 
A migration involves moving data, such as from an RPM-based 2.6 installation to a container-based 2.6 installation. 
New service components are not explicitly required between versions 2.5 and 2.6.

Can I upgrade from 2.4 to 2.6 or must I upgrade to 2.5 first?::
Yes you can upgrade directly to 2.6. 

> However note that there may be new system requirements you will need to update before upgrading. 

Reviewer: Suggestion: 
```suggestion
However note that there may be new system requirements you must update before upgrading. 
```

//See the Overview of upgrade improvements section.

I’m using {EDAName} (EDA) in 2.4, can I upgrade EDA to 2.6?::
If you are using {PlatformNameShort} 2.4 with the technical preview of EDA controller but want to upgrade to the {PlatformNameShort} 2.6 with EDA, you must install a new instance of {PlatformNameShort} 2.6 and manually re-create your EDA configurations in the new, fully integrated environment.

Will my existing 2.4 or 2.5 OAuth Applications/Tokens, Credentials/Customer Credentials, and Personal Access Tokens still work after upgrading to 2.6?::
For upgrades from {PlatformNameShort}  2.4 or 2.5 to {PlatformNameShort}  2.6, some manual configuration is required:
* OAuth applications:
** {ControllerNameStart}: You can view and edit existing {ControllerName} applications, but you cannot create new ones. They still function, but they might be removed in a future release. You should plan to migrate to platform OAuth applications.
** {PlatformNameShort}: Platform OAuth applications provide an updated interface and are the standard for future use. You will transition to these applications.
* Tokens:

> ** {ControllerNameStart}: {ControllerName} personal access tokens (PATs) are deprecated. You will move to platform gateway PATs.

Reviewer: Suggestion: Since you're using the controller name at the start of the sentence, maybe continue using the {ControllerNameStart} here. 
```suggestion
** {ControllerNameStart}: {ControllerNameStart} personal access tokens (PATs) are deprecated. You will move to platform gateway PATs.
```

** {PlatformNameShort}: Platform tokens provide an updated interface and are the standard for future use. You will transition to these tokens.
* Authenticator configurations:
** {PlatformNameShort} 2.4 to {PlatformNameShort} 2.6: The migration of all authenticator configurations from the automation controller to the {Gateway} is automated. This includes third-party authentication configurations and sensitive data like SAML private keys or OAuth secret keys. If you use custom LDAP certificates, you must manually migrate them.
** {PlatformNameShort} 2.5 to {PlatformNameShort} 2.6: Authenticator configurations are not automatically migrated. LDAP settings configured in {PlatformNameShort} 2.5 remain as they were after upgrading to 2.6.

What RBAC ({Gateway} and/or {ControllerName}) control permissions will be missing in version 2.6?::

> * *For 2.4 to 2.6 upgrades:* During the upgrade, authenticators and their mappings from the controller are imported into the gateway, therefore you don't need to manually migrate authenticators.

Reviewer: Suggestion: 
```suggestion
* *For 2.4 to 2.6 upgrades:* During the upgrade, authenticators and their mappings from the controller are imported into the gateway; therefore, you don't need to manually migrate authenticators.
```
